This repository contains the dataset used in the numerical experiments described in the research paper _"Branch-and-cut algorithms for colorful components problems"_ by C. Archetti, M. Cerulli and C. Sorgente.

## The paper
We tackle three optimization problems in which a colored graph must be partitioned into connected colorful components.
A component is _colorful_ if all its vertices have different colors.
We consider three different objectives, formulate the resulting problems as integer nonlinear programs and linearize them through standard linearization techniques. Then, we develop exact branch-and-cut algorithms, including families of valid inequalities for each problem, bounds reducing the size of the models, warm-start and preprocessing techniques.

## Instances
The networks in the [Instances](https://github.com/casorgente/colorful-components/tree/main/Instances) folder were obtained starting from the instances used in [[1]](#Bruckner2012), generated by the authors from multiple alignment instances of the BAliBASE 3.0 benchmark [[2]](#Thompson2005).
More in detail, instances with multiple connected components were decomposed in such a way to obtain a new instance for each of them. The resulting collection contains 445 instances. The name of each file is composed of the name of the original instance from the collection of [[1]](#Bruckner2012) and an incremental numeric ID denoting a specific connected component. In our experiments, we restricted the analysis to all the graphs having between 10 and 210 nodes, resulting into a dataset of 409 instances.

## References
<a id="Bruckner2012">[1]</a> 
Bruckner, S., Hüffner, F., Komusiewicz, C., Niedermeier, R., Thiel, S., Uhlmann, J. (2012). Partitioning into Colorful Components by Minimum Edge Deletions. In: Kärkkäinen, J., Stoye, J. (eds) Combinatorial Pattern Matching. CPM 2012. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 7354. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-31265-6_5

<a id="Thompson2005">[2]</a> 
Thompson, J.D., Koehl, P., Ripp, R. and Poch, O. (2005), BAliBASE 3.0: Latest developments of the multiple sequence alignment benchmark. Proteins, 61: 127-136. https://doi.org/10.1002/prot.20527

